My name is Alessandro Sabatelli and I'm
a Quartz Composer motion graphic artist.
Today we'll be going through
two hands-on tutorials.
The first one will be covering
some of the fundamentals of
working with Quartz Composer.
We'll be looking at things
like the coordinate system,
how to approach animation,
and working with groups of elements.
And in our second tutorial we'll
be looking at how you can use
Quartz Composer in production.
So some of the things we'll
be covering there are particle
systems and how to apply effects
to different areas of your graph.
First thing that you'll need to do
is launch the Quartz Composer editor.
If you're on Leopard,
this is in Developer Applications
Quartz Composer,
and on Tiger, Developer Applications
Graphics Tools Quartz Composer.
You'll notice we got a
little bit of a bump here,
and we have a new icon.
So, this is the first composition
we'll be building.
Multiple elements animating
some nice little reflections.
And this is a group of elements.
So again, if you're coming in late,
please have the assets
for today's session.
connect.apple.com/wwdc2006/sessions207.ph
p.
Everybody got that?
All right,
if I could have demo one please.
We'll get started on our tutorial.
So I'm going to launch Quartz Composer,
which I've put handily in my dock.
Hey, if this is the first time you're
launching Quartz Composer,
you'll notice that we
have a new assistant.
I'm going to go ahead and cancel that,
close the getting started, and file new.
And here we have our editor
window and our viewer window.
So I'm going to just get that set
up for you guys so you can see.
I'm going to adjust my preferences
so we have a little bit more
contrast in our workspace.
So what you just noticed was
the workspace change in color,
that's the place where we do most
of our work in Quartz Composer.
To the left of that we
have a patch library,
and above that we have a search
field for the patch library.
We also have a viewer,
and this is where Quartz Composer
is going to be doing its drawing.
And you'll notice here in
the toolbar of our editor,
if you do not have your viewer,
we have a viewer button and you can
press that to launch your viewer.
So what you'll immediately notice
is that our viewer has a white
and gray checked background,
and that means we're not doing
anything within the viewer currently.
So most of the time what we
need to do first is we need to
clear the screen once per frame.
So I'm going to search in my search
field here for clear and drag a
clear patch out onto my workspace.
And for those of you familiar
with Quartz Composer or who went
to Pierre's session yesterday,
a patch is basically a type of function.
There are two types of patches.
There's those which take
data in and process it,
and there are those
which draw to the screen.
The clear patch is one
which draws to the screen.
You'll notice that our
viewer is now black.
We're clearing the screen or drawing
to the screen once per frame.
And patches which draw to the screen
have this special enable port.
If I hover over it,
I can see that the value is set to true.
If I were to double click on the
input port and set the value to false,
we'd no longer be clearing the screen.
So I'm going to go ahead and
re-enable that by setting it to true.
You should all have a black viewer.
So what we need to do first in
decomposing this problem is look
at each of the things that we need
to do in a step-by-step fashion.
So the first thing that we need to
do is draw something to the screen.
So if you can go to the assets
folder for today's session,
if you go to QC Fundamentals,
And in the assets folder there,
we have a peter.png.
So just so you guys know,
we also have some milestones set forth.
And these are steps which I'll be taking
you through throughout the tutorial.
So if at any point in
time you do get lost,
feel free to start up
from one of these steps.
And you'll know where I'm
at because periodically I'll
be saving to the desktop.
So in the assets folder
of QC Fundamentals,
we have peter.png.
If you take that and drag
that into your workspace,
You may think that what we're going to do
is immediately we'll have drawn an image.
But actually this is just another
patch which is outputting an image,
and what we need to do is
display that image on a surface.
So if you search for "sprite", we'll
be using a sprite to display our image.
And drag Sprite out onto the workspace.
And connect the output image of
Peter to the input image of our Sprite.
And there we have Peter,
who's looking a little bit larger.
As you can see.
And in actuality,
Peter is not this large.
Peter is a healthy man.
So the reason why Peter is
looking large here is because
Our sprite is square and our
Peter image is non-square.
And you can see the size of
the Peter image if you hover
over the output port of Peter.
You'll notice that it says 174 by 334.
And this is the actual
pixel size of our image.
And what we need to do is get
our sprite to be a little bit
more correctly proportioned.
So if you were to select your
sprite and go to the inspector,
Under input parameters,
you can control the width.
So if I were to drag
this counterclockwise,
I can get Peter super skinny.
Or a little bit, yeah.
But if we wanted to exactly
proportion this sprite,
what we can do, new in Leopard,
is we can enter an expression
directly in the width field here.
So this is 174 divided by 334,
and that is .521.
So if you're in Tiger,
just go ahead and type 0.521.
And you will have a correctly
proportioned sprite.
So now we have
Peter displayed on our viewer.
And you may notice that he's
wearing a leopard print shirt.
And I had actually asked for a picture
of a running leopard from marketing,
but apparently that was not attainable.
So what I did was I went ahead and put,
or upgraded Peter's style.
Okay, so I'm going to save that
to my desktop as 1-sprite.
Okay, so the next thing we're gonna do,
or we're gonna look at in
approaching this visual problem
is how to get the reflection.
And in order to get the reflection,
we're simply going to take our original
image and flip it over the X axis.
The X axis runs horizontally.
And we're going to do that to a sprite,
the surface which we're going to
be displaying this reflection on.
So we can just go ahead and select
our first sprite and option drag.
You'll see a green plus.
and release.
And what you'll immediately notice
is that Peter's gone and he's been
replaced by this white rectangle,
and that is because we
are now drawing a sprite,
which is a copy of our original sprite,
which is correctly proportioned on top
of our sprite which was drawing Peter.
And the reason that we know it's on
top is because patches which draw to
the screen have a rendering order.
So, our first patch, the clear patch,
is rendering first,
then we're drawing the sprite
which is textured with Peter,
and then we have our third sprite
which is yet to be textured.
So, if you go ahead and connect
Peter output image to the input
image on our second sprite,
we're more or less back where we started,
except now we're actually
drawing Peter on two sprites.
So we're going to adjust
our second sprite by again
rotating it over the X axis.
So if you open up the inspector,
go to input parameters,
X rotation and drag that clockwise.
This is going to take a
long time to get to 180.
So just as a tip,
what you can do is hold down shift
to increase the increment here.
And I'll need you to just
go ahead and type 180.
So now we have Peter upside down.
So in order for this to be a reflection,
what we need to do is
shift this down in Y.
And we need to shift this down by
the height of our original image.
And that was one, if you recall.
So if you were to grab Y position and
go counterclockwise to negative one,
we now have a reflection of Peter.
And we're going to adjust the
color so that this is a non-perfect
reflection to something like that.
So now we have Peter and his reflection.
And I'm gonna save that as a milestone.
Save as to reflection.
All right, so now that we have this image
being displayed on a sprite and
another image being the reflection,
what we're going to look
at is how to animate this.
And animation in Quartz
Composer can be accomplished
in a number of different ways,
but all of them work in
basically the same way.
And what they do is you end up
with a patch that references
time and outputs a number.
So this number will be
varying based on the time.
And the patch which we're going to be
using today is the interpolation patch.
So if you search for interpolation
and drag interpolation out,
And what we can immediately do
is connect interpolation to the
X position of our first sprite and
the X position of our second sprite.
And what you'll see is we have
Peter moving from the center
of the screen to the right.
I'm going to look at the inspector
for our interpolation patch.
The first thing I'm going to do
is rename the interpolation patch.
This is just good practice.
It's basically like commenting
your code or as low level as
naming your functions or methods.
It's pretty important,
especially if you want
help on the developer list,
which I encourage you to do.
So interpolation X.
And if I were to look at the input
parameters for Interpolation X,
you'll notice that the start value is 0,
the end value is 1,
and the duration is 1.
So what this means is that over a second,
this patch is going to be
producing or interpolating between
a number 0 and 1 over one second.
And the repeat mode is set to loop,
so this number will just be looping.
And the interpolation is linear.
So as you can see,
Peter is moving in a linear fashion from
the center of the screen to the right.
And so what is zero and one?
And you may be asking yourself
what these numbers actually mean,
and what we're doing is we're
animating within the Quartz
Composer coordinate system.
So I put together actually a little
patch so I can show you and talk to you
a little bit about the coordinate system.
So here we have our Quartz
Composer coordinate system.
So as you'll recall, when we rotated the
sprite over the x-axis,
that the x-axis is the horizontal one
and the y-axis is the vertical one.
Our X axis goes from -1 on
the left to +1 on the right.
Our Y axis is variable,
which you can see here.
If I change the aspect ratio
of our rendering destination,
you'll notice the number on the left,
being the width,
remains a 2 and the height is changing.
So this is very important because
what this allows you to do is create
content for varying destinations.
So say for your computer or
for somebody else's computer,
for different installations
or whatever you want to do.
So the important thing to recall
here is that the width always
remains 2 and the height changes.
I can show you that.
I have a little coordinate
of where my mouse is.
And you can see that it goes from
negative one to positive one in X,
and one half the height to
negative one half the height.
Okay, so here we are,
Peter starting at the center, 00,
and moving to the right, 10.
So what we need to do is get
Peter to move from off-screen
left to off-screen right.
So in our inspector for
our interpolation X patch,
under input parameters,
I'm going to set the start value to -2.5.
and the end value to 2.5.
So Peter is now flying across
the screen at a brisk pace.
So what we can do is change
the duration at which this
interpolation is interpolating.
So I'm gonna change
that to three seconds.
And we now have Peter moving at a more
reasonable rate from left to right.
[Transcript missing]
All right,
the next thing that we're going to
look at is adding some animation
to Peter's Y position to get him
to bounce from left to right.
And we can do that with
another interpolation patch.
So search for interpolation and
drag an interpolation patch.
Add on to the workspace.
Again, the first thing I'm going to do
here is change the name or the title
of the patch to interpolation Y.
And what I'm going to do is I'm going
to connect that to my first sprite,
but not to my second sprite immediately,
and that'll become apparent in a
second for the reasoning behind that.
But here we have Peter.
Again, by default,
the interpolation is interpolating
between 0 and 1 over 1 second,
so his Y position is
changing over 1 second.
And as I mentioned,
patches which we use for
animation reference time.
And in this case,
our interpolation patch is
referencing time to produce a
value which changes over time.
And what it's actually doing is it's
interpolating between the two values,
and by default it's interpolating
in a linear fashion.
So what we want to do is we want
to change the way it's actually
interpolating between these numbers.
So by default,
the interpolation patch has a
few built-in interpolation modes,
which you can see in the input
parameters of the inspector.
There's quite a few.
But what we actually want is
a custom interpolation curve.
So if you go to the settings pane
of our interpolation Y patch and go
to Customize Interpolation Curve,
Add a point somewhere in the
middle and then drag the point on
the upper right all the way down.
And I can adjust this curve
so there's a little bit more
acceleration on the outset.
And we now have Peter bouncing
from left to right.
So the next thing that we want to do
is get his reflection bouncing as well.
So if some of you may have jumped the gun
and connected this to your second sprite
as well and you did not want to do that.
And the reason why you
didn't want to do that,
as you recall,
we had shifted our reflection down in Y.
So what we need to do is we
actually need to modulate the
output of our interpolation Y so it
makes sense for our second sprite.
So not only do we need to take
the value coming out of the
interpolation Y and shift it down one,
we also need to flip it over,
and we'll be inverting the number
by multiplying by negative one,
so that as our original image bounces up,
our reflection bounces down.
So we end up with this kind
of bouncing reflection.
So in order to modulate the
output of our interpolation Y,
we can get a math patch.
And just like it's named,
it allows you to do simple
mathematical operations.
So as I mentioned before,
we'll need two operations.
So in the settings for the math patch,
go ahead and click the plus
for the number of operations.
And in the Inspector pane,
under Input Parameters, set
The operation one to multiply,
operand one to negative one,
Operation 2 to subtract
and operand 2 to 1.
So if we now were to connect the
output of our interpolation Y patch
to the initial value of our math
patch and the output of that to
our Y position of our sprite,
what we'll get is this
bouncing reflection.
And again,
recall the reason why that's working
is because we're taking our value,
which is going like this,
and we're inverting it
so it's going like this,
and then we're shifting it down.
So it's literally doing what
you're seeing on the screen.
So here we have Peter bouncing
most jovially from off-screen
left to off-screen right,
along with a reflection.
[Transcript missing]
So now that we looked a
little bit at animation,
we're going to look at how to animate
groups of elements in Quartz Composer.
And again,
there's a number of ways you can do that,
but what we'll be using
today is the iterator.
So the iterator,
just like a for loop for those
of you with a little bit of
a programming background,
what it allows you to do is it allows
you to execute part of your graph a
certain number of times per frame.
And the way that we do that is
the iterator is a special type
of patch known as a macro patch,
and a macro patch allows you to take
other patches and put it inside of it.
So anything that's inside of this
iterator patch is going to be executed
a certain number of times per frame.
So what we're going to do is we're going
to take everything that we just built,
our interpolations, our two sprites,
our math, and our original image,
and we're going to put that inside
of an iterator and execute that a
certain number of times per frame.
So that'll give us a certain number
of Peters bouncing from left to right.
So if you search for iterator,
And drag the iterator macro
patch out onto our workspace,
you'll notice that the
corners are square.
And that is because macro
patches have square corners.
It's just a little bit of a visual cue.
So what you can do is
select our interpolations,
Peter, Math, and our two sprites.
And edit, cut.
Everything's gone away.
Go inside our iterator patch
by double clicking on it,
and edit, paste.
So it looks like we're
right back where we started,
but instead what we're actually
doing is we're drawing 10 of these,
one on top of the other.
And the reason why I know
it's 10 is because the default
settings for our iterator patch,
the number of iterations is set to 10.
So within an iterator patch,
just like a for loop,
what we need to do is not specify
how these iterations are the same,
but we need to specify
how they're different.
And the way that we differentiate
iterations within a for loop or our
iterator is by using the current index.
And you can access the current index
by using the iterator variables tool.
Which if you search for iterator,
and drag that out onto the workspace,
It has three output ports:
the current index, the current position,
and the number of iterations.
So the current position,
just so you know,
is the normalized index between 0 and 1,
1 inclusive.
So we'll be using that today.
So what I'm going to do is I'm
going to take the current position,
which again, the normalized index,
0 to 1, 1 inclusive,
and I'm going to rearrange it so that
it goes between negative 2 and 0,
and I'm going to apply that
to the Z position of our
sprite and sprite reflection.
And what we'll end up with
is the first iteration,
or iteration 0, being at negative 2,
and then going all the way
forward to 0 with 10 iterations.
So I'm going to be using the new
mathematical expression patch.
For those of you in Tiger,
you can simply use a math patch.
And what you'll need to do is have,
with your two operations,
you're going to multiply
by 2 and subtract by 2.
But the mathematical expression
allows me to do that in a little
bit more of an intuitive way,
which is easily traced through as well.
So if I were to go to the settings
pane of our inspector and type
current position times two minus two.
And connect the current
position to the inspector.
And I'm going to connect that to the
Z position of both of our sprites.
And now we have Peter bouncing from
left to right at 10 different Z depths.
What you'll immediately notice
is that it appears as if the
Peter image is on a black background.
In actuality,
this Peter image has an alpha channel,
but what we need to do in order to
take advantage of that is adjust
the blending mode on our sprites.
So if I were to directly double click
on the blending input port and set
the blending mode from none to over,
and do the same on our reflection,
We now have Peter with a clean edge,
bouncing from left to right
at 10 different Z depths.
So again, what we did here is we simply
differentiated the behavior of
our subgraph by using the index
of our iteration or our iterator.
So I'm going to save that as five.
Okay.
So the next thing that we're going
to look at is differentiating
the X position of each of these
sprites and their reflections.
And in order to do that,
it's the same thing basically.
But what I need to do
in order to do that,
right now our X position is being
driven by this interpolation X,
and each one of these iterations
is getting the same value.
What I need this to do,
recall that patches which animate
in Quartz Composer produce
numbers which depend on the time.
What we need to do is change the time
which each of these patches references,
and we're going to change it
in a way that's based on the
index within our iterator.
So patches which reference
time have this special menu,
if you were to Control-click
on our interpolation X,
named Time Base.
And what this allows you to do, again,
is manually control the time
which this patch references.
So by default, this is set to parent,
and this is referencing the time
which our iterator patch is providing.
And the iterator patch is providing
a time which is also set to parent.
So it's actually looking
at the root time base.
So there's one time, basically,
for this entire composition.
But what we want to do is
control the time which our
interpolation X references manually.
So we'll set our time base to external.
And you'll immediately notice
that everything is gone.
And the reason is because
if I were to look at the
inspector for our interpolation,
under Input Parameters,
there's a new input port,
or a new input here named Patch Time,
which I can now control manually.
I can get Peter to do all this.
to do all kinds of fun stuff.
So what I'm actually doing is
I am changing the time which the
interpolation X is referencing.
At this case,
it's referencing some number
around one and a half.
So this, recall that our
interpolation is just simply,
in this case,
interpolating between negative
2.5 and 2.5 over three seconds.
It's also looping,
so if I were to go past three,
we'd start again back on
the left at negative 2.5.
So what I'm going to do is I'm
going to modulate the time,
or the patch time,
that the interpolation X is
referencing based on the index
within the iterator patch.
So the first thing I'm going to do is
I'm going to search for patch time.
I need something to modulate.
In this case,
it'll be the patch time of the
parent patch or the iterator.
So if I were to directly
connect this back to the patch
time of our interpolation X,
we'd be more or less back
where we started with the
Peters bouncing from left to right.
But now I have this parameter exposed,
so I can modulate that.
And I'm simply going to use
a math patch to add an offset
based on the current index.
So if I were to connect the patch time
to the initial value of our math patch,
and the output of our math
patch to the patch time,
nothing has changed because by
default we're simply adding zero.
So what I'm going to do is I'm simply
going to connect the current position
from our iterator variables to operand1.
And you'll immediately notice is that
now each of our successive Peters,
again recall that they're starting
at negative two and coming forward,
so each successive one is
offset by some number close to
point one in their patch time.
So what you get is this
kind of diagonal row of
Peters bouncing from left to right.
So as exciting as that is,
what we'll need to do in order to
add a little bit more variability
to this example is randomize
the position based on the index.
So search for random and drag
that patch out onto our workspace.
And what random does is it'll simply
produce a continuously variable number,
or an animating number,
between the min and the max over time.
The key word here is time.
The random patch is
referencing a time base.
So what I'm going to do is I'm
going to externalize that time base.
And I'm going to, more or less,
look up into this random patch
based on the current index.
So if I were to connect current index
to the patch time of the random,
and connect the output of the
random patch to operand one,
what we now have is a group of Peters,
each one with a random offset per
index added to our patch time.
And in actuality,
what we need to do is we need to set
our max value of our random patch
to the duration of our interpolation
to get a more even distribution.
So if I set the max value of
our random patch to three,
we now have a more or less evenly
distributed group of feeders bouncing
from left to right at different z-depths.
And what some of you may notice,
if you have a keen eye,
is that this pattern
is actually repeating.
And the reason why it's repeating,
recall that our
interpolation is set to loop,
and that our random patch is actually
outputting the same number for
each iteration within our iterator.
And that's because the time which
it's referencing is actually
based on the current index.
Now if we wanted that changing,
we could do some other kind of math and
add some patch time the same way that
we're adding patch time to our random.
But for this example,
this should suffice.
The next thing that we're going to
look at is randomizing the bounce
for each one of these iterations.
And we can do that using
the exact same technique.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going
to select my interpolation Y patch.
Control click on that and set
the time base to external.
So we now have our Peters sliding
from left to right.
This should be familiar by now.
And I can control them patch
time manually and get them
to do this hover type thing.
And you can simply connect
the output of our math patch,
which is the patch time with
a random offset per index,
to the patch time of our interpolation Y.
You should now have Peters randomly
bouncing with random offsets in
X from off-screen left to off-screen
right at different Z depths.
And I'm going to save that as 6 final.
Go full screen on that
so you guys can see it.
So if we could go to slides please.
Alright, some of the things that you
learned and some things to remember
in this first tutorial is that
the Quartz Composer coordinate
system is resolution independent.
This means, again,
is that the Quartz Composer coordinate
system uses units and not pixels,
and the reason why is so that we can
display on differing output destinations.
The other thing to remember is that you
need to pay attention to rendering order.
If some of you jumped the gun and
ended up clearing at some point
after which you were drawing,
you will not see anything.
And it may seem a little
abstract or maybe it's concrete,
but basically you need to
erase first and then draw.
The other thing to remember here is
that you can control the time for
patches which reference the time.
This allows you to do interesting things,
particularly within an iterator,
such as reference a time which
is based on the current index.
Okay, so for our second tutorial we'll
be looking at how you can use
Quartz Composer in production.
So you might recall from Steve's
keynote that he presented the backup,
the new backup system,
and the backmost layer
of that backup system,
of the backup animation was
done using Quartz Composer.
So recall that this is a spiral
galaxy looking kind of thing and
there's a galactic core in the
center and some stars flying out.
So what we're going to do in
this tutorial is we're going to
look at how you would approach
something like this and do an
approximation of how we actually
built this for the backup system.
So if I could have demo one please.
I'm going to create a new file.
And get set up.
All right, so old news,
the first thing that we need
to do is clear the screen.
So let's get a clear patch,
clear the screen.
The next thing that we're going
to do in decomposing this problem
is we're going to look at the most
prominent element of this scene,
this being the swirling galactic cloud.
So in order to accomplish that,
the first thing that we need is some
kind of evolving or billowing cloud.
And we can get something pretty
quickly by using the particle system.
So if you search for particle
system and drag a particle
system out onto the workspace,
If you went to Pierre's session,
you'll have a brief overview
of a particle system,
but for those of you who haven't,
particle system basically defines a
group of points evolving over time,
and each one of these points is birthed,
lives for a certain amount of time,
and then dies and is reborn.
And the motion which these points move
at in space is defined by the input
parameters of our particle system.
And our particle system allows us
to display a whole bunch of images,
in this case on these white squares
which are always facing the camera.
So the first thing that we're going to
need to do is texture these squares.
So if you go to the assets
folder for the galaxy,
There is an image in there named Cloud.
Let's drag Cloud onto our workspace.
and connect the output of
the cloud image to the input
image of our particle system.
So you should all see a whole bunch
of clouds kind of flying around.
And just like with Peter,
these are on a black background because
we need to adjust the blending mode.
So double click on the blending mode
and set the mode from none to add,
because we're looking for a
more additive effect here.
And we're now going to look at setting
up the parameters of our particle system
to get it to behave in a way which is a
little bit more like a billowing cloud.
So I'm going to adjust the input
parameters of our particle system.
So if you guys just follow along,
I will explain what I'm doing
after I set all of our parameters.
So the first thing that I'm going
to do is I'm going to set the color.
I'm going to go for
something like a sea green,
something over here.
And then I'm going to adjust the opacity.
- Something like 20%. Going to
set the X min velocity to
negative 0.0 or negative 0.5.
The X max velocity to 0.5,
the Y min velocity to -0.5,
the Y max velocity to 0.5,
the Z min and Z max velocity to 0,
The min size to 0.05.
Whoops.
And the max size to 0.075.
Lifetime you can leave it to.
We're going to change
our size delta to 0.15.
Our opacity delta to minus .125.
And our attraction to zero.
So I'll zoom in on that
so you guys can see that.
Alessaandro Sabatelli: Okay,
so let's look at what I did
to define this behavior.
So now that we have this billowing
cloud just kind of flying outwards,
and again, recall this is just one image,
and what we're doing is we're
modifying this image over time.
So what we did was we set
the initial velocity vector.
So when each one of
these particles is born,
it is born with an
initial velocity vector.
So in this case I'm defining a min and
max in the three different dimensions,
x, y, and z.
Recall that the z is zero,
so what we're doing is we're generating a
velocity vector randomly on a flat plane,
which is pointing somewhere within
negative 0.5 to positive 0.5 in x and y.
So what we get are these
particles that are kind of flying
outwards from a central point.
When each one of these particles is born,
we're saying that we want it to be,
or have a size,
which is somewhere between
0.05 and 0.075 units.
It's going to live for two seconds,
and over those two seconds the size is
going to change by 0.15 units per second,
and the opacity is going to change
by -0.125 per second as well.
So what we get are these things
flying out randomly from the center,
and as they fly out,
they're growing and fading out.
And that's exactly what
you see in the viewer.
So the next thing that we're going
to look at is how to add a little
bit of a galactic swirl to this.
One way that we can do that in Quartz
Composer is by leveraging Core Image.
For those of you
unfamiliar with Core Image,
Core Image allows you to filter
or process pixels in a very
efficient and optimized way.
What we need to do is we need to
pass a Core Image filter an image,
have it operate on that image,
and then display that image on a surface.
So right now we have a particle system
which is being rendered to the screen.
In order to render this to an image,
what we need is a special macro
patch called render an image.
So if you search for render an image,
you might want to search for
render generator as a shortcut.
And here's our render an image.
Again, a macro patch, square,
And what we're going to do is simply
select our particle system in our cloud,
edit cut,
Go inside our render an
image by double-clicking it.
And because we're going to
be generating an image here,
the first thing we need to do,
just like when we're generating
an image on the viewer,
is we need to clear this
image once per frame.
So I'm going to search for clear,
drag clear out onto the workspace,
and edit paste.
For those of you that jumped
the gun and pasted your particle
system and then cleared,
recall that you're drawing
and then erasing the screen
and you won't see anything.
So what you need to do is
change the rendering order.
So for those of you that did that,
you can simply the rendering
layer to one instead of two.
So then you'll be clearing and
drawing your particle system.
So I'm going to do that.
So onto the workspace.
Here's our familiar white square.
Connect the output of the render an image
to the input image port of our sprite.
And it'll look a little squished,
same reason as Peter being squished.
The aspect ratio,
or the proportions of the image which
we're generating by our render an image,
is not square.
And you can see this by hovering
over the output image port.
And you'll notice it says 512 by 384.
What you'll also notice
is that new in Leopard,
our viewer has a size
displayed directly on it,
which happens to be 512 by 384.
This is not a coincidence.
By default,
the render an image is producing
an image which is sized to
the rendering destination.
So in order to some cycles when
processing our core image filter,
what we're going to do is
fix the size of our image.
So new in Leopard,
you can dynamically change the size of
your render and image by just simply
double-clicking these input ports.
But if you're on Tiger,
you can go to the settings
pane of our set the width to
512 and the height to 512.
So we now have a correctly
proportioned image,
which we're displaying on a square.
And I'm going to set the
size of my sprite to be 2.5.
So we're more or less
back where we started,
except now, just like with time,
we can modulate this image in line.
So in order to do that,
I'm going to need you to get
the spin distortion asset.
from the QC Galaxy.
So within Assets,
there is a galaxyassets.qtz.
If you double click on that,
you can just close the
viewer or wait for it.
- Fun little animation in there.
But what we need is the spin distortion.
So if you select that,
I'm going to minimize this to the dock.
We're going to need
that a little later on.
And I'm going to edit paste.
So here is our spin distortion.
And as I mentioned,
Core Image comes with something
like 150 built-in filters.
But for this particular project,
as you'd guess, we had to write our own.
So spin distortion leverages
Core Image using the Core Image kernel
patch in Quartz Composer.
You can see this kernel patch.
Let me clean up a little bit.
If you go to the settings
inspector on the kernel,
after carefully reading our disclaimer,
which I'm sure all of you will do,
We have our spin distortion kernel.
Exercise up to the reader
if you guys want to look
through that on your own time.
But basically what we're going to do is
we're going to take an image in and we're
going to add some kind of spin to it.
And in order to accomplish that,
I'm going to route our image
through the spin distortion filter.
And here we have a spinning gas cloud.
Thank you.
So it's going kind of fast,
which would be an
insane amount of backup.
So what we can do is a similar technique.
We're going to be modulating
the time which our render
and image is referencing.
Recall that our particle system
is animating based on time.
Its time base is set to parent.
The parent in this case
is the render and image.
So what we can do is just
simply externalize the time
base of our render and image.
Again, it's black.
If you were to go to input parameters,
we have this patch time,
and you can simply play around all
day long by scratching our time here.
But what we're gonna need
is a patch time patch.
So drag patch time out.
And you can connect that to the
patch time of our render and image.
We'll need a math patch
to modulate this number.
Connect that to the initial value.
Connect that to patch time.
And we're simply going to,
in the inspector pane,
under input parameters,
set our operation one to multiply
and set it to something like 0.05.
So now we have this
slowly evolving gas cloud.
Connect that to the initial value.
Connect that to patch time.
And we're simply going to,
in the inspector pane,
under input parameters,
set our operation one to multiply
and set it to something like 0.05.
So now we have this
slowly evolving gas cloud.
of everything that we had selected,
And I'm going to name that Spiral Galaxy.
So now we're simply clearing the
screen and drawing the spiral galaxy.
The next thing that we're gonna look at
is adding this kind of blown out center,
which is our galactic core.
And I have pre-assembled
that in our assets folder.
Oh, sorry.
That is in the Galaxy Assets Composition.
So select the Sun macro and edit copy.
Going to re-minimize that and edit paste.
So now we have a blown out center.
And if you were to look in Sun Macro,
we're simply displaying an image,
which is this radial
gradient on a sprite,
which we've named Sun.
So pretty easy.
The next thing that we're going to grab
from our Galaxy assets is the stars.
So select the stars macro patch, edit,
copy, and paste.
Close that, and you'll now see some
stars flying out at us.
And if you were to look inside
of the stars macro patch,
We have a particle system which we've
configured a little differently.
Now what we're doing is we're
generating a random velocity
vector within this cone,
which is kind of coming out at us,
so we get these stars flying out at us.
And I'm also modulating the patch time
here to slow this entire thing down.
And that's really it.
So we have these stars flying
out at us over this galactic
core with this spinning galaxy.
I'm going to save that as Galaxy.
So I'll go full screen
so you guys can see that.
So obviously there was a
lot more tweaking that went
into the final product,
but this should give you an
idea of how you can approach
production using Quartz Composer.
So if we can go back to slides please.
Slides.
Thank you.
Okay, some of the things that we learned
in this last tutorial is that you
can use a render an image macro patch
to post-process areas of your graph.
So simply put them inside of our
render an image and then you can
leverage core image to apply filters
and effects to areas of your graph.
We also looked a little bit in
both of these tutorials on how to
approach visual problem solving.
Basically what you need to do is
decompose your problem into smaller
steps just like everything else.
Some people seem to have difficulty
in applying this to visual problems,
but it's really the same thing.
So recall in the first tutorial
our final product was a whole
group of Peters bouncing from
left to right at different depths
in an all randomized fashion.
This may seem kind of daunting at first,
but the first thing that we did was we
simply displayed our image on the screen,
added a reflection,
then we got this animating and
then applied or then exploded
this into a group of elements.
And the last thing to remember
when working in Quartz
Composer is to have fun.
What we're working in is an
environment where we don't
have to deal with this compile,
test, you know, run cycle.
We simply can build things,
drop patches directly on our workspace,
get immediate visual feedback
and learn from there.
So it's this two-fold process
where you're experimenting,
learning and also you can
use this in production.
and get specific results.
So for more information you
can contact Alan Schaffer,
who is our graphics evangelist.
But it looks like we have some time,
so what I'm going to do is
completely decimate our galaxy.
So if we can go back
to the demo one please.
So if you have any questions,
please come to our lab later on during
the day and I can help you directly.
Since we have time,
I'll show you a little bit how
I work inside of Quartz Composer.
So here we have our galaxy.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to
take our galaxy and kind of add a little
bit of a different stylistic view to it.
I'm going to go for something late 70s,
early 80s, so it's in a wild style
or something like that.
And we'll get our thing to look a little
bit more like some kind of style machine.
So the first thing I'm going to change
is the look of our spiral galaxy.
So I'm going to go inside of my spiral
galaxy and look for some patches.
And inside of our render an image,
we're displaying our particle system.
So I'm going to replace our
cloud with a radial gradient.
This is a core image, radial gradient.
And I'm going to set my color to
have an opacity of zero so it's
automatically cropped and as a
result the radial gradient will
produce an image of fixed size as
opposed to an image of infinite size.
And I'm simply going to connect
this to the input image.
This is immediately going to blow out
because our color one is completely
white and completely opaque.
So I'm going to immediately
adjust my color.
Let's see, that's right.
So I'm going to generate
a random color per frame,
per particle as they're birthed.
Going to search for HSL,
which is the hue saturation
luminance color generator.
For those of you that don't know,
this allows you to define a
color simply based on the hue
saturation and luminance dimensions.
And I'm going to connect that to color,
adjust my alpha, my luminosity.
What I want to do is I want to
modulate the hue randomly per frame,
so I can use a random patch to do that.
And I'm going to set
the variability to zero,
so we produce a random number per frame.
And connect that to Hue.
So what we'll now get is as
these particles are birthed,
we're gonna get a random Hue value.
You can see here's the Hue,
randomly changing per frame.
If I were to look at the particle system,
you'll notice
That this color well is
changing rather rapidly,
and we'll start to see some colors
kind of flying out of our galaxy.
Sure.
By default,
as an optimization inside of Core Image,
what it'll do is it'll automatically
set the DOD of your image to be
wherever there is opaque pixels.
So if you had an opaque
black that went on forever,
it goes on forever.
So you would have an image of
infinite dimensions which you would
need to crop with a Core Image crop.
Okay, so now we have these colors
kind of flying out at us.
What I'm gonna do is increase
the speed here a little bit.
Something like.
So you'll immediately
notice that we got a jump,
and that's because we
literally jumped in time.
And what I can do is because this
is inside of a render and image,
I can apply other core image filters.
So I could do something like edges.
So now we have some kind of
edge effect on top of our kind
of modulated soft color galaxy.
[Transcript missing]
That's kind of interesting looking.
So now I'm going to look
at changing the stars.
And what I'm going to use is inside
of the assets folder for QC Galaxy.
I added this little RTF file
with some stars in it.
So I'm going to select one of them.
And these are from iTunes.
And I'm going to use an
image with string patch.
And this is simply given a
string going to produce an image.
So I'm going to paste that in here.
Set our stars.
So you'll immediately notice
that they look a little chunky,
and that's because we're
producing a very small image,
in this case 22 by 32 pixels,
and displaying it rather
largely on the screen.
So what we can do is
change the font size.
It's a little bit cleaner.
Maybe we want more particles.
I'm going to set that to 128.
Lots of stars.
And I can modulate the
color of these as well.
So I can just go back
to my Spiral Galaxy,
copy this.
I'll just set that as the color
of my stars as they're birthed.
There we go.
So now we have some kind of bad 70s,
80s nightmare.
And I will go full screen.
So it looks like we still have some time,
so we can do a little Q&A if you'd like.
Shall we go back to slides please?
Recall that we have some labs coming up.
We have one tonight and we have a Quartz
Composer lab specifically tomorrow.
And there is also a
Core Image lab tomorrow.